Patch 6 (#2262)
openturns/openturns: python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/importance_form.rst

Importance factors from FORM method
-----------------------------------

Importance Factors are evaluated in the following context: let :math:`\vect{X}` be a probabilistic input vector with
joint density probability  :math:`\pdf`, let :math:`\vect{d}` be a
deterministic vector, let  :math:`g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d})` be the
limit state function of the model and let :math:`\cD_f =
\{\vect{X} \in \Rset^n \,   / \, g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \le 0\}` be

> an event which probability :math:`P_f` is defined as:

Author: ok

.. math::
    :label: PfX10

         P_f =       \int_{g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \le 0}  \pdf\, d\vect{x}

In this context, the probability :math:`P_f` can often be
efficiently estimated by :ref:`form_approximation` or :ref:`sorm_approximation` approximations.

> The FORM importance factors allow one to rank the importance of the

Author: ok

input components with respect to the realization of the event. They are often seen as indicators
of the impact of modeling the

> input components as random variables rather than fixed values. The

Author: ok

FORM importance factors are defined as follows.

The isoprobabilistic transformation :math:`T` used in the FORM and
SORM approximation is a diffeomorphism from
:math:`\supp{\vect{X}}` into :math:`\Rset^n`, such that the
distribution of the random vector :math:`\vect{U}=T(\vect{X})` has the
following properties: :math:`\vect{U}` and :math:`\mat{R}\,\vect{U}`
have the same distribution for all rotations
:math:`\mat{R}\in{\cS\cO}_n(\Rset)`.

In the standard space, the design point :math:`\vect{u}^*` is the

> point on the limit state boundary the nearest to the origin of the

Author: ok

standard space. The design point is :math:`\vect{x}^*` in the physical
space, where :math:`\vect{x}^* = T^{-1}(\vect{u}^*)`. We note
:math:`\beta` the Hasofer-Lind reliability index:
:math:`\beta = ||\vect{u}^{*}||`.
When the :math:`\bdU`-space is normal, the literature proposes to
calculate the importance factor :math:`\alpha_i^2` of the variable
:math:`X_i` as the square of the co-factors of the design point in the
:math:`\bdU`-space :

.. math::
    :label: def1

        \alpha_i^2 = \displaystyle \frac{(u_i^{*})^2}{\beta_{HL}^2}

This definition implies that the sum of importance factors is equal to 1, i.e.:

.. math::

>       \Sigma_i \alpha_i^2 = 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \sum_{i = 1}^n \alpha_i^2 = 1
```

Author: ok

> This definition arises the following difficulties:

Author: ok

-  Which signification for :math:`\alpha_i` when the variables

>    :math:`X_i` are correlated? In that case, the isoprobabilistic

Author: ok

  :math:`\vect{d}` a deterministic vector, representing the fixed
  variables :math:`g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d})` the limit state function of
  the model,

>   :math:`\cD_f = \{\vect{X} \in \Rset^n \, / \, g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \ge 0\}`

Author: More usual convention in the literature: exceedance of a threshold.

>   :math:`\cD_f = \{\vect{X} \in \Rset^n \, / \, g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \ge 0\}`

Author: ```suggestion
  :math:`\cD_f = \{\vect{X} \in \Rset^n \, / \, g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \le 0\}`
```

>   :math:`\cD_f = \{\vect{X} \in \Rset^n \, / \, g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \ge 0\}`

Author: ok. I kept the notation but changed the title of the section: "Probability of crossing a threshold".

    :label: PfX10

     \begin{aligned}

>          P_f =       \int_{g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \ge 0}  \pdf\, d\vect{x}.

Author: ```suggestion
         P_f =       \int_{g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \le 0}  \pdf\, d\vect{x}.
```

        \alpha_i^2 = \displaystyle \frac{(u_i^{*})^2}{\beta_{HL}^2}

> | This definition guarantees the relation :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| This definition implies that the sum of importance factors is equal to 1, i.e.:
```

Author: ok

  .. math::
      \Sigma_i \alpha_i^2 = 1
      

> | Let’s note that this definition arises the following difficulties :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| This definition arises the following difficulties:
```

Author: ok

   importance factors ... (see [lebrun2009c]_ to compare
   the different isoprobabilistic transformations).

It is possible to give another definition to the importance factors
which may be defined in the elliptical space of the iso-probabilistic
transformation, where the marginal distributions are all elliptical,
with cumulative distribution function noted :math:`E`, and not yet

> uncorrelated. We denote by :math:`F_i` the cumulative distribution of the component :math:`i`.

Reviewer: I would add a link to the "Isoprobabilistic transformation" page here, because it defines what exactly "E" means.

Author: ok.

  which may be defined in the elliptical space of the iso-probabilistic
  transformation, where the marginal distributions are all elliptical,
  with cumulative distribution function noted :math:`E`, and not yet

>   uncorrelated. We denote by :math:`F_i` the cumulative distribution of the component :math:`i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  uncorrelated. Let :math:`F_i` be the cumulative distribution of the component :math:`i`.
```

Author: ok

    \alpha_i^2 = \displaystyle \frac{(y_i^{*})^2}{||\vect{y}^{*}||^2}

This definition still guarantees the relation:

.. math::

>     \Sigma_i \alpha_i^2 = 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \sum_{i = 1}^n \alpha_i^2 = 1
```

Author: Ok... I corrected it two times

    \alpha_i^2 = \displaystyle \frac{(y_i^{*})^2}{||\vect{y}^{*}||^2}

This definition still guarantees the relation:

.. math::
    Sigma_i \alpha_i^2 = 1

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for any :math:`i = 1, ..., n`.
```

Author: I detailed the sum.

> If the event is a threshold exceedance, :math:`P_f` is the threshold exceedance probability defined as :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that the event is a threshold exceedance, then let :math:`P_f` be the threshold exceedance probability, defined as:
```

.. math::
   P_f     =       P(Z \geq z_s) = \int_{g(\vect{X}\le z_s}  \pdf\, d\vect{x}
   

> The FORM importance factors offer a way to rank the importance of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FORM importance factors rank the importance of
```
